# Analysis of Selfdestruct Usage on Ethereum after the London Hard Fork
https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/4758 is a proposal which changes the behavior of the EVM `SELFDESTRUCT` opcode and renames it to `SENDALL`.  `SENDALL` removes the contract destruction aspect of `SELFDESTRUCT` while retaining the behavior which transfers the balance of the executing contract to a target recipient, and immediately returns execution to the calling contract.

There are two main use-cases for selfdestruct after the London hard fork:
* Selfdestructable contracts with addresses generated by `CREATE2` can be destroyed, and new contracts created at the same address.  This can serve as a contract update mechanism.
* Contracts can be created, used, and selfdestructed within the same transaction.  These are referred to as ephemeral contracts.

Addresses where contracts were destroyed and then recreated (whether as a result of a contract redeployment or ephemeral contracts making use of the same address more than once) are referred to as a re-inited addresses.

## Results

From genesis to block 12,799,316 (the time period looked at in the [previous analysis work](https://nbviewer.org/github/adompeldorius/selfdestruct-analysis/blob/main/analysis.ipynb)), there were 11304 contracts which created and redeployed child contracts, 69102 addresses which were re-inited one or more times.

Since London (block 12,965,000), 34 contracts redeployed child contracts, 233 contracts created ephemeral contracts at 97266 addresses, 235 addresses had multiple non-ephemeral contracts deployed at them.

Of all adddresses which where creators of contracts at re-inited addresses, or re-inited addresses themselves, 83 had nonzero ether balances.  Here are twenty addresses with the highest Ether balances:

| Address | Ether Balance | Creator |
| --------------------------- | --- | ---- |
|0x000000000000006f6502b7f2bbac8c30a3f67e9a| 3324.420061694295| | 
|0x66be1bc6c6af47900bbd4f3711801be6c2c6cb32| 1901.0612243907497| [Third Floor Mutual](https://3fmutual.com/) |
|0x0000000000007f150bd6f54c40a34d7c3d5e9f56| 1052.0346555690187| | 
|0x8bc110db7029197c3621bea8092ab1996d5dd7be| 522.381685684114| | 
|0x30b84dc1a46c58e0bcfe6aa9f74042dff159277a| 140.56124777053802| |
|0x36049d479a97cde1fc6e2a5d2cae30b666ebf92b| 98.89128076172763| [Pine Finance](pine.finance) |
|0x3dca07e16b2becd3eb76a9f9ce240b525451f887| 84.90239709803015| |
|0x9998569436887938287223231949815647232697| 84.00239483914334| | 
|0xbe4a176b0d18f1e158cc1a833383212f68327b51| 58.12295457143919| |
|0x000000000035b5e5ad9019092c665357240f594e| 33.67848284726566| |
|0x983b45f89198b3356e81bc09a0fa1933bbea1d76| 28.036818265914945| |
|0x5b1b0349b3a668c75cc868801a39430684e3f36a| 19.98447425583028| |
|0x206548d60d891aefc16cf899af75e3527148941a| 13.571287045047718| |
|0x0000000099cb7fc48a935bceb9f05bbae54e8987| 11.07584061230294| |
|0xd412054cca18a61278ced6f674a526a6940ebd84| 7.271706101417892| [Pine Finance][pine.finance]
|0xafe87013dc96ede1e116a288d80fcaa0effe5fe5| 5.5812284324692545| |
|0xa95baf5ef81707aa56625a9302a7f7d3aaf12ef4| 5.509614527057623| |
|0x2222222229b89c7844f19ef503c4dc503be47f84| 4.784371587066971| |
|0x8e2dc6d9318eedda52335afe8ef4ff1cf3883cae| 4.348183572554626| |
|0x6b2b69c6e5490be701abfbfa440174f808c1a33b| 4.045736144113548| |

Some potential next steps for proceeding with the analysis are:
* Identifying contracts from the list of potentially-affected which hold large/valuable ERC20 balances.
* Identifying currently-existing selfdestructable contracts which were deployed via `CREATE2` and determining of these and their creators, which have large ERC20/Ether holdings.

Once there is a full list of potentially-affected contracts, further examination the solidity source or bytecode of these contracts will be useful.

## Running the Analysis

The first step is to retrieve the raw dataset of contract creation / selfdestruct internal transaction traces from the BigQuery Ethereum dataset with the following query:

```
select block_hash, transaction_hash,  trace_id, block_number, transaction_index, from_address, to_address, trace_type, call_type, status, value from `bigquery-public-data.crypto_ethereum.traces` 
    where (trace_type='suicide' or trace_type = 'create')
    order by block_number asc, transaction_index asc
```

The dataset is somewhat large (30gb) and must be exported as multiple csv files to a GCS bucket.  When exporting from BigQuery to GCS, choose `data-*.csv` as the naming format for the exported files.  Download these csvs to a folder `data-traces` placed in the top-level directory of this repo.  Execute the script `rename-files.py` to rename the downloaded files so that their data is ordered properly (i.e. the layout of the data in `data-0001.csv`, `data-0002.csv`, ... is chronological.  when the files are downloaded from the storage bucket, the numerical prefix assigned to a given csv is somewhat random).

Execute the analysis by running `analyze.py`.

The analysis script produces several results:
* `creators-of-redeployed-addrs.csv` - list of any contract that created an child contract which was redeployed.
* `creators-of-ephemeral-contracts.csv` - list of accounts which created ephemeral contracts.
* `redeployed-addrs.csv` - a list of addresses which had contract redeployments.
* `ephemeral-addrs.csv` - a list of addresses where ephemeral contracts executed.
* `ephemeral-creators-which-reuse-addrs.csv` - creators of ephemeral contracts that executed at re-inited addresses.

To get a list of Ether balances for all accounts in these three csvs, execute `query_balances_for_creators_and_reinited_addrs.py`.
